Infinet proposes the notion of Autonomous Chain Domains (ACDs) as the building blocks of the blockchain infrastructure. An ACD is formed by a set of peers sharing a common contractual, geographical or other forms of agreement. Examples may be enterprises or voluntarily-formed originations that operate their own blockchain systems. Using ACDs, rather than individual peers, as building blocks provide natural boundaries for failure isolation and blockchain operation autonomy, allowing Infinet to extend its scale by incorporating heterogeneous domains. 

Design Principles

Domain-based Isolation. The decentralized nature of Infinet requires that stakeholders of Infinet’s global blockchain infrastructure must include diverse peers, organizations and enterprises that are distributed globally. Due to the di erent levels of technical sophistication and cooperativeness of these entities, Infinet must be able to con ne the impact of faulty and malicious activities by any entity. Towards this end, Infinet’s  rst design principle is to divide the global blockchain infrastructure into independent domains to provide natural boundaries for failures.

Domain Blockchain Autonomy. One domain is operated by a set of peers grouped based on a common contractual, geographical or other forms of agreement. For instance, an enterprise or a peer-formed organization can operate one domain. Each domain has full autonomy of operating its local blockchain systems, meaning that the domain can deploy arbitrary peer network topology and use proprietary algorithms to keep state consistency among peers. Domain self-governance provides two critical bene ts. First, it removes the legal barriers of operating domains in existing geographic and political boundaries. Second, it enables pioneering domains to deploy new technology to optimize their operations, which ultimately drives the innovation of blockchain technology.

DApp Controllability and Independence. Due to domain heterogeneity, Infinet must allow a DApp owner to explicitly and precisely control which set of domains to trust when deploying applications on Infinet. In otherwords, a DApp owner controls exactly which domains participate in its transactions and which domains are excluded. The principle of DApp controllability is the corner stone to build a secure and reliable blockchain infrastructure since it holds domains accountable for their actions, allowing DApps to exclude untrustworthy domains from operations. Additionally, DApp-driven domain selection naturally leads to stronger inter-DApp independence and isolation, which is desirable because Infinet’s infrastructure is shared by many DApps.

Organic Scalability. Composed of geographically distributed self-governed domains, Infinet is naturally able to scale out and grows into global-scale blockchain infrastructure. Meanwhile, Infinet must be organically scalable: on one hand, Infinet is able to grow its scale without involving into a semi-centralized system; on the other hand, the growth of Infinet should be able to gradually exclude less trustworthy or/and malicious domains from the ecosystem.
